>> Jen Kramer: So let's talk a little
bit about developing materials for
your portfolio.
Just recently, I went through the process
of hiring a new instructor to work with me
at Annie Cannons, which is where I work.
I'm the director of learning design and
technology,
basically the head of a boot camp,
which teaches human trafficking survivors
how to code and how to build Websites,
full stack web development.
And I looked at about 80
different resumes and
it was really shocking how every
single resume was exactly the same.
There was very little that
made anybody stand out.
So I wanted to say a little bit about
developing portfolio materials and
how to tell your story a little bit more
effectively than what I'm seeing out there
right now.
And I'm going to point out to you that
there is a link here to a Google Doc.
I'll go through the information in
that some things to think about as you
put together your portfolio materials.
I'd also like to point to
Jerome Hardaway's course,
getting a software engineering job,
which is also
available here at Frontend Masters, which
has great information about resumes and
LinkedIn and GitHub, AI interviewing and
all the rest of that.
>> Mark: Also for free.
>> Jen Kramer: Also for free.
Strongly recommend that you
take a look at that course if
you're serious about making
a real portfolio website.
So let's take a quick peek
at my checklist here.
I have a check list of things that you
might wanna think about in terms of
building this website.
So first of all, what is your goal for
building this website?
Typically, people are gonna think about,
I want a permanent job or
I just wanna get some side work.
I have a real job, but I want a little bit
of work on the side for my side hustle.
Or maybe I'm at a transitioning from
one area of focus to another and
I wanna demonstrate expertise
in a specific area.
Maybe I'm looking for a promotion.
All of that is gonna guide what you
wanna think about for your website.
And I'm not gonna spend a whole lot of
time on looking at this cuz I think this
is all relatively self explanatory, but
here's some things to think about
if this is your very first job.
First time that you're perhaps you've
just graduated from a boot camp.
Perhaps you've graduated from college.
You've never had a job in the field
of web development before.
These are some things that
you might think about.
Thinking about your new permanent job,
thinking about side work.
Demonstrating your expertise.
This is not a comprehensive list, but
some things that you should keep in mind.
You'll wanna create portfolio
artifacts in order to align your
goal with what you're gonna
show on your website.
Those two things should be in alignment,
and so the kinds of materials you
might wanna put together for your
portfolio would include a very good title.
So the title of each project should
clearly reflect the kind of work done.
So, for example, a good title would be,
using React.js to create an e-commerce
app with physical goods.
I know exactly what that is now, right?
I know exactly,
you're gonna have shipping issues.
You're going to have inventory issues.
I know you're using React,
as opposed to flare website that
doesn't tell me anything
at all about what that is.
So unless you're working with
something that's very recognizable,
like you're talking about Netflix or
McDonald's or IBM or anything else.
It may be sufficient just to say
the name of the company, but
if it's not a recognizable name, you'll
want to describe a little bit further.
You'll wanna have a few screenshots.
Your screenshots are useful
as an eye catcher,
even if you're working on something that
doesn't lend itself to a screenshot,
like you're a database developer,
you may still wanna take a few screenshots
of where your data is being used.
And then generally speaking, the way
that we talk about this kind of stuff is
there's a problem, there's a solution, and
then you can spell out all the details.
So the problem was somebody identified
a problem and gave you a problem to solve.
Briefly, this was the solution
that we came up with, and
then you can tell a detailed story about
why that was the right solution and
how you went about solving it so forth.
So I'll let you read a little
bit more about that.
And then finally, a little bit about code.
The easiest thing to do is
just to link to GitHub, but
you can also focus on
smaller chunks of code.
This was a really key piece of code
that made this whole situation work and
this is how exactly that
kind of thing works.
There's an about me section.
In the about me section,
you're going to make sure you have
a good head shot of yourself.
Ideally, you're going to go to
a professional photographer with good
lighting, you're gonna wear something
that's kind of professional looking and
you'll have your headshot taken.
All the things that apply sort of
generally between personal and
professional photos apply here.
So avoid things like strappy and
sleeveless tops,
avoid your sunglasses, avoid those
blurry photos, or tiny photos or
glamour photos or
lots of people in the photo.
You want the most boring
photo of yourself ever.
Yes, your basic self smiling
with professional clothes, okay?
And I would actually argue that
no photo may be better than
using things like cartoons or
illustrations,
unless you are an illustrator and
that's the kind of work that you're doing.
I would also argue that no photo may
be better than anything that's weird,
AI enhanced or generated kind of images or
anything that makes someone
wonder whether you're a real person or
if this is a scam site.
So that's something to think about.
What to say?
There's mostly three or
four sentences of identifying your name,
your current position,
your current company, a few tools and
techniques that you specialize in,
the kind of work you specialize in, and
a word or
two about your educational background.
Yes, Mark.
>> Mark: Could you talk on the portfolio
piece on what projects you should display.
From your opinion, how big does a project
have to be in order to be featured?
If it's a small open source contribution,
I don't know,
kind of small versus large projects?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah, so
it all depends, right?
So if you say that you built the Amazon
website, I don't believe you for a second.
You did not build Amazon, but you might
have built one tiny, small feature on
the Amazon website, and maybe your
story focuses on that particular thing.
If you're at boot camp,
maybe you did, in fact,
build a whole entire application based
on your particular boot camp, and
what's going on in the boot camp,
what you were demonstrating.
So that might be something where it looks
like a bigger project than the one tiny
thing that you did in Amazon.
So I wouldn't necessarily
think about scope.
I would think about how well you can
tell the story of the problem that you
were trying to solve,
the solution to that problem, and
any details that you have to say
about that particular problem.
I would also say that you wanna
pick basically those portfolio
items that would help you get
the job that you're looking for.
So you're a full stack developer, but you
really wanna move into the frontend space.
Go and focus on projects that demonstrate
your chops in terms of building UI,
as opposed to building databases, right?
So that's another thing to think about
as you put together your portfolio,
what skills are you trying to demonstrate?
If this is your first job and
you're just coming out of boot camp,
you may have all kinds of different things
inside of your portfolio and that's fine.
That's absolutely fine to
do that kind of thing.
What I would encourage you to do is get
away from all of the class assignments
that your boot camp gave you and
start to focus on maybe some
open source contributions.
Maybe focus on some projects that you've
identified and built on your own, or
maybe some side work that you've done
instead of just showing your classwork.
Because, by the way, there'll be a lot
of people who come from your boot camp
that'll be showing that same work.
And then finally, there may be
some other portfolio sections.
These are not going to be on the site
that we're going to build today, but
I just wanted to mention that these
are things that you may want to include.
I'm not saying that my portfolio
design here is the perfect one.
There may be more things
that you wanna show off.
So those might include, again,
those open source contributions.
Maybe you have some kind of formal
educational background that you wanna
highlight or technical volunteer work.
Maybe you want a hackathon,
you wanna talk about that.
Maybe you have other kinds of
awards that you wanna highlight, or
anything else that relates to
your work as a developer and
that will help you further your story and
get a job.
Okay, by the way,
this whole worksheet that I just gave
you could be a whole course by itself.
But fortunately Jerome Hardaway
already made it.
It's the getting a software
engineering job.
So this is just to help
guide your thinking as you
start putting together your own
material to build this website.
And then I would recommend if
you're watching this course,
you may wanna pause here.
You may wanna go spend some time
pulling that information together and
then come back and code along with me.